NEW AMERICAN STANDARD BIBLE
Copyright (C) 1960,1962,1963,1968,1971,1972,1973,1975,1977,1995 by
THE LOCKMAN FOUNDATION
A Corporation Not for Profit
LA HABRA, CA
All Rights Reserved
http://www.lockman.org
                      
The "NASB," "NAS," "New American Standard Bible," and "New American
Standard" trademarks are registered in the United States Patent and
Trademark Office by The Lockman Foundation.  Use of these trademarks
requires the permission of The Lockman Foundation.

PERMISSION TO QUOTE

The text of the New American Standard Bible(R) may be quoted and/or
reprinted up to and inclusive of five hundred (500) verses without
express written permission of The Lockman Foundation, providing the
verses do not amount to a complete book of the Bible nor do the verses
quoted account for more than 25% of the total work in which they are
quoted.

Notice of copyright must appear on the title or copyright page of the
work as follows:

"Scripture taken from the NEW AMERICAN STANDARD BIBLE(R),
Copyright (C) 1960,1962,1963,1968,1971,1972,1973,1975,1977,1995
by The Lockman Foundation.  Used by permission."

When quotations from the NASB(R) text are used in not-for-sale media,
such as church bulletins, orders of service, posters, transparencies
or similar media, the abbreviation (NASB) may be used at the end of
the quotation.

This permission to quote is limited to material which is wholly
manufactured in compliance with the provisions of the copyright laws
of the United States of America.  The Lockman Foundation may terminate
this permission at any time.

Quotations and/or reprints in excess of the above limitations, or
other permission requests, must be directed to and approved in writing
by The Lockman Foundation, PO Box 2279, La Habra, CA 90632-2279 (714)879-3055.
http://www.lockman.org


EXPLANATION OF GENERAL FORMAT

NOTES AND CROSS REFERENCES are placed in a column adjoining the text
on the page and listed under verse numbers to which they refer. 
Superior numbers refer to literal renderings, alternate translations,
or explanations.  Superior letters refer to cross references.  Cross
references in italics are parallel passages.

PARAGRAPHS are designated by bold face verse numbers or letters.

QUOTATION MARKS are used in the text in accordance with modern English
usage.

"THOU," "THEE" AND "THY" are not used in this edition and have been
rendered as "YOU" and "YOUR."

PERSONAL PRONOUNS are capitalized when pertaining to Deity.

ITALICS are used in the text to indicate words which are not found in
the original Hebrew, Aramaic, or Greek but implied by it.  Italics are
used in the marginal notes to signify alternate readings for the text.
Roman text in the marginal alternate readings is the same as italics in the Bible text. 

SMALL CAPS in the New Testament are used in the text to indicate Old
Testament quotations or obvious references to Old Testament texts.
Variations of Old Testament wording are found in New Testament
citations depending on whether the New Testament writer translated
from a Hebrew text, used existing Greek or Aramaic translations, or
paraphrased the material.  It should be noted that modern rules for
the indication of direct quotation were not used in biblical times;
thus, the ancient writer would use exact quotations or
references to quotation without specific indication of such.

ASTERISKS are used to mark verbs that are historical presents in the
Greek which have been translated with an English past tense in order
to conform to modern usage.  The translators recognized that in some
contexts the present tense seems more unexpected and unjustified to
the English reader than a past tense would have been.  But Greek
authors frequently used the present tense for the sake of heightened
vividness, thereby transporting their readers in imagination to the
actual scene at the time of occurrence.  However, the translators felt
that it would be wise to change these historical presents to English
past tenses.


ABBREVIATIONS AND SPECIAL MARKINGS:

Aram      = Aramaic
 DSS      = Dead Sea Scrolls
  Gr      = Greek translation of O.T. (Septuagint or LXX) or Greek 
            text of N.T.
 Heb      = Hebrew text, usually Masoretic
 Lat      = Latin
 M.T.     = Masoretic text
 Syr      = Syriac
 Lit      = A literal translation
  Or      = An alternate translation justified by the Hebrew, Aramaic, or Greek
  [ ]     = In text, brackets indicate words probably not in the 
            original writings
  [ ]     = In margin, brackets indicate references to a name, place  
            or thing similar to, but not identical with that in the
            text
  cf      = compare
f, ff     = following verse or verses
mg = Refers to a marginal reading on another verse
ms, mss   = manuscript, manuscripts
v, vv     = verse, verses
